[Term Entry] local-variables (#5496)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/variables/terms/local-variables/local-variables.md

---
Title: 'Local Variables'
Description: 'A variable defined inside a function body between braces is called a local variable.'
Subjects:
  - 'Game Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Variables'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> Local Variable is a variable in which it's scope is only limited to the function where it is defined. It exists and can only be accessed inside a function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Local Variable** is a variable whose scope is only limited to the function where it is defined. It exists and can only be accessed inside a function.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
void local_variable(){
    int a_local_variable;
}
```

> The variable **`a_local_variable`** is local to the **`local_variable`** function it is defined in. It can only be used inside that function and the life of the variable ends when the function exits. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The variable `a_local_variable` is local to the `local_variable` function in which it is defined. It can only be used inside that function and the life of the variable ends when the function exits.
```

## Example

> In the following example, a_local_variable of integer data type is defined inside the function local_variable().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, the `a_local_variable` of integer data type is defined inside the function `local_variable()`.
```

```cpp

> #include <iostream>
> using namespace std;
> void local_variable(){
>     int a_local_variable = 1;
>     cout <<a_local_variable;
> }
> int main() 
> {
>   local_variable();
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void local_variable(){
    int a_local_variable = 1;
    cout <<a_local_variable;
}

int main() 
{
    local_variable();
}
```

```

> The output of the above code will be:

Reviewer: Give  a line gap after line 44

```shell
1
```

## Codebyte Example

```codebyte/cpp

> #include <iostream>
> using namespace std;
> void local(){
>     int var = 0;
>     cout<<var;
> }
> int main() 
> {
>   local();
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

void local(){
    int var = 0;
    cout<<var;
}

int main() 
{
  local();
}
```

Reviewer: Give a blank line after line 62
